Abstract:
Food insecurity and population growth are two of Egypt's current biggest problems. The primary source of fish for the people is fish aquaculture. The majority of fish farms are either not productive due to manual processes and human error, or they are not built sustainably, which contributes to climate change. Using an automated feedback system for aquaculture, our project intended to increase the output and sustainability of Nile tilapia farms.  An automated heater and aerator mechanism were used to regulate the temperature because it has an impact on the fish's quality of life and ability to reproduce, along with monitoring water color (algae blooms). Algal blooms cause a rise in total dissolved solids and poisons in the water and a decrease in dissolved oxygen. Automating water replacement and zeolite mineral treatment were chosen to treat the Algae blooms. Temperature is used to calculate the amount of dissolved oxygen. The project took into account the following design criteria: 1) Reducing the prototype's overall energy consumption 2) The Speed of the process (efficiency of the parameter): the pace at which each parameter changes in relation to capacity and time. 3) Preserving natural resources: As zeolites purify water, it gains a high organic content that makes it suitable for use as fertilizer. The prototype is a little plastic box containing a baby Nile tilapia and two litres of water. The temperature DS18B20 sensor, the TCS3200 colour sensor, four relays with a heater, an aerator, and two water pumps were all connected to an Arduino uno board. The results were found to be a total energy of 4.420 kJ, a speed in downgrading temperature = of 2/3 C.Litre/minuite, a temperature increase of speed 8/9 C.Litre/minute, and a decrease in the concentration of water colour in the water with speed of 55.38 color concentration. Litre/minute by replacing a total of 3.6 litres. The prototype met all design requirements and was cost-optimized to the highest degree. It was decided that even if the cooling system's aeration system is effective, it would be better to replace it. 
Materials and Methods:
Arduino Uno - DS18B20 - TCS3200 - An Aerator - A heater - Two Water Pumbs - 4 relays.
